# LEVEL2

What is Starknet, and what technologies does it leverage for scalability, privacy, and security?
StarkNet is a Layer2 solution which uses zkSTARKs(zero knowledge) to scale Ethereum. The solution alleviates congestion on Ethereum's network through adding additional throughput and reducing transaction fee. Starknet uses native programming language Cairo and the Cairo Virtual Machine (VM). Furthermore, Starknet uses math and cryptography to scale Ethereum securely, operating as a Validity-rollup (or ZK-rollup) and bundling many transactions and rolls them to Ethereum as a single transaction.
How does Starknet function as a Layer-2 scalability solution for Ethereum, and what cryptographic systems does it use to reduce computation costs?
The Layer-2 solutions primarily aim to improve the scalability of the underlying blockchain network by processing transactions off-chain or in a more efficient manner. The transactions however still relies on the security of the main Ethereum network. StarkNet uses "STARKs" (Scalable Transparent Argument of Knowledge) to achieve scalability and reduce computation costs. The STARKs are a cryptographic system which allows for creation of succinct proofs used to verify the correctness of computations without needing to re-execute those computations. In Layer-2 solutions, this can be useful, as it enables offloading a significant amount of computational work from the Ethereum mainnet to the StarkNet system.
StarkNet allows certain complex computations, such as smart contract execution and processing of transactions, to be performed off-chain. Users interact with these computations on StarkNet instead of submitting every transaction to the Ethereum mainnet, which reduces the congestion and computation load on Ethereum. When transactions or computations are executed on StarkNet, they produce STARK proofs. These proofs are cryptographic constructs that serve as succinct and efficient evidence of the correctness of the computation results. These proofs are then periodically committed to the Ethereum mainnet to ensure their integrity and security. StarkNet leverages the Ethereum mainnet as an anchor for security. Periodically, StarkNet aggregates STARK proofs and submits a summary (commitment) of those proofs to the Ethereum mainnet. Hence any invalid computations or fraudulent behavior can be detected and challenged on-chain.